just finishing my breakfast having a
conversation about immigration politics
that's a survey in the past we talked
about the social science research
associate especially with a guy named
Putnam you really created a new academic
sub-discipline talking about trust trust
as a social science concept this is not
trust in conventional sense
guys like Francis Fukuyama a number of
other popular authors and politics also
weighed in on this and is interesting
topic what's ironic is that general this
discourse within the field of political
science started off with the assumption
that if we study this issue of trust of
what is social trust how do you have
trust within a community basically that
this was going to approve of was going
to rubber-stamp was gonna put the
imprimatur of science on you know the
liberal globalized cosmopolitan 21st
century city and instead what all of the
research proved was the exact opposite
it found high levels of trust exactly
where you have high levels of social
cohesion so for example a small town in
Spain or everyone's Catholic everyone
goes to the same school everyone goes to
the same church all speak the same
language and there's absolutely zero
immigration and you had lower and lower
trust less and less trust in a
cosmopolitan multi-ethnic society now so
I just said to my girlfriend we were
talking about this I said well look we
should stop talking and we should but if
I were to make a video about this for
one thing so putnams research his first
book on the topic was called a Bowling
Alone Bowling Alone and there it wasn't
framed in these racial terms it wasn't
framed terms of immigration but it
basically said look in the past in
America in the 1950s or 1960s people at
bowling clubs
people had these units of social
organization like going bowling together
and they were important in terms of
social capital trust social cohesion
even the ability to organize something
politically and he said today in America
people still go bowling but they go
bowling alone
they go bowling just boyfriend and
girlfriend they go bowling in these much
smaller groups he was suggesting that
people are becoming more atomized and
more disorganized now first of all I
actually profoundly disagree with that
now with us because how did I meet my
girlfriend the Internet
you know actually I think he's already
it's a profoundly false things they Oh
back in the good old days I D fifties
people had more more social capital and
more ability to auratus the Internet has
changed the game for everyone even your
private romantic life but definitely our
political if in your political life more
than more than anything else right
already this is already a question but
he obviously was looking at that in
terms of the disintegration of social
capital the disaggregation of social and
political life and at that point he was
not thinking of it in terms of black
versus white or immigrant versus older
civil population or what have you but
it's interesting of itself organically
that's what that area of social science
research became that's kind of what
happened as the as the research quest as
the discipline quest thanks Ari she was
doing a lot more talking before I threw
the camera I assure you but you know
this is just a catch-up but basically
what we're saying this conversation my
girlfriend asked me served where do I
stand on this and my first answer was
look I actually don't see this in terms
of a straight political decision I don't
see this in the left wing versus right
wing or all right versus wrong what I
would want to emphasize in a YouTube
video is I actually see this as a matter
of personal character and I'm not saying
my personal character is right and
someone else is wrong I'm not saying my
personal character is politically
correct another cigarette but I said
look in terms of the kind of guy I am my
character just in that sense my
character I want to live in a highly
cosmopolitan low trust society I am NOT
the kind of guy who would be happy in a
small town in Spain where everyone's
Catholic everyone goes to the same
school everyone's the same Church they
have a higher level of cohesion and by
the way this is one of the criteria of a
high trust study when you have a high
trust society your neighbors know your
secrets you know what was the example
gave you from Canada
your neighbors notice how many bottles
of wine you're drinking from what's
going out in your recycling bin you know
the number of empty glass
let's go and they talked about it like
oh you know that guy then again it
wouldn't be I was gonna say that guy
down the block is drinking more wine
than you used to it would be that guy
Tom who we went to grade six with that
guy Tom who you know from church that
guy Tom who's in your bowling club like
that's the point that's what a high
trust aside is like oh he's been
drinking more oh you know that guy Tom
his wife is cheating on him they know
that that's a high trust Society is the
small town village in Spain where
everybody's in each other's business
nobody has any privacy nobody has any
personal freedom and there's frankly
from my perspective this is my character
I feel there's not that much creativity
I feel that stifling my creativity okay
I would rather live in the kind of
opposite extreme stereotype the low
trust society which is the backstabbing
rat race you know like the bad
stereotype about Manhattan nobody knows
anybody nobody trusts anybody you know
International electro people are
speaking 10 different languages you know
I'm so critical I don't only see good
things about that believe I grew up in a
multicultural Robin in downtown Toronto
downtown enough Toronto this the school
I went to we had a lot of Chileans we
had a lot of Asians we did have a lot of
black people they were Caribbean black
people where I was they weren't direct
from Africa of black people and they
also weren't black families who'd been
in Canada for four hundred years they
work they were pretty new immigrants
revenge as mentioned I had a lot of
ethnic never and even the Europeans we
don't like we had new immigrants from
Greece and they were just as foreign as
the Caribbeans are more cement you have
white people but there there's still
really new immigrants they're still
speaking Greek they're still speaking
Italian they're still really new in
words I had a lot anywhere it's a lot of
diverse memory I do see the
disadvantages I do I do I do within my
school in terms of how my school ran
there's no question that the lower
quality of education than other schools
where the students could speak English
there's no question you know I really am
aware that nevertheless for my character
for Who I am
I would rather have the rough and tumble
of a culturally diverse big city than
the small-town Hydro Society and I'm not
saying you're wrong I'm not saying other
people are wrong if they choose to live
in a small town monocultural society
right
yeah okay so when you were saying that I
was like well you've made videos about
veganism becoming a community what you
want people to be connected and it would
be nice to be able to go to a community
center for veganism and you have to
think about like you know it what you
just described as a hydro society I
think my mom grew up in that type of
society and like my dad as well like
they grew up
and the suburbs of Detroit in like the
50s and 60s and everybody knew each
other's business like my mom was best
friends with her next-door neighbor like
her mom still gossips yeah yeah so but I
didn't have that experience like you
know growing up in the 90s in the
suburbs of Michigan like I could I
couldn't just like go over to my
neighbor's house and like I don't I
don't think I've ever stepped foot in
some of my neighbor's houses like my
next-door neighbor is like you know what
I mean
so like I can see benefits to it because
like and you and you have to think about
like yeah you personally have this this
you say this is your character but like
what about when you have your daughter
with you like where you want to be able
to like drop her off with your baby like
your next-door neighbor or something to
babysit her and have that kind of trust
like this person is trustworthy enough
honestly no honest to god I'm a you know
and again for me the cosmopolitan
multi-ethnic multilingual so it works
for me but like maybe I'm a complete
you know but so I think more than one
really interesting issue is is God not
here but you know like I you know in
some sense I want my daughter to have a
good education but I actually feel it's
my role to provide her with that not the
schools because I've grown up with in
such a terrible but my all my experience
Loren situation is so terrible
I assume the school is gonna suck and I
have to educate her to raise my so that
really is my assumption to say that
that's how I view it it's like okay you
go to school and it's garbage and then
you come home and I'm gonna read through
your textbook and tell you how it's all
lies sorry that's what's important
spiritual I key I understand you can't
do algebra because the Canadian
education systems incapable of teaching
knowledge but the only way students can
learn
learn how to do algebra sitting out with
their parents or to write this part of
it but I think also I think you could
make a criticism of my position
by saying that my position reflects my
own unique cultural experience which is
true completely guilty is it not the
case that I just come from a culture I
despise that I'm profoundly
uncomfortable with and profoundly
dissatisfied with you know white
english-speaking Canadian culture that I
grew up as a dissident in that culture
hating it and therefore I want to be in
a multicultural setting maybe I would
feel differently if for example I lived
in Japan and I fundamentally liked and
appreciated you and said you know what
if federer's ampuls me South Korea there
are a lot of things are just being our
other a lot of things I like about so I
don't Japan not so much you know III
like South Korean culture of been to
South Korea I started learning Korean as
a language at two different points in my
life
quit you know both times but quit cuz I
was gonna study in languages busy with
other languages the real reason um long
story short but you know okay let's say
I really like South Korean culture then
would it not be the case that within
South Korea I would prefer to live in a
high trust society you know so it's not
Catholic small-town Spain I don't like
Catholicism I'm an atheist I'm a
nihilist I'm an intellectual there's
reasons why small-town Catholic Spain
wouldn't appeal to me but what about a
high trust society within South Korea
sake Buddhists South Korea let's say
it's a Buddhist community and South
Korea does hell it's dressed still no
still within Korea still within South
Korea let's just say I love South Korean
culture bit of a bit of an exaggeration
but if somebody but there are there a
lot of things I preach about South
Korean culture a lot of things still
within South Korea I want to be where
the action is I want to be in the
entrepot City I want to be where South
Korean culture is being challenged by
European influence Chinese influence
Japanese influence African influence
Caribbean and both I want to be on the
the multicultural edge of South Korean
culture even if I love South Korean
culture I want to be where the tough
questions are being asked and that was
even the case for me and Laos and
Thailand but I'm not saying I'm right
I'm not saying I'm right and the people
in the small town
wrong I'm not I'm saying it's a choice
that reflects your character okay so I
get what you're saying but you know what
you're saying doesn't really line up
with where you lived in the past so you
moved to Taiwan when you've had your
daughter do it small city you didn't I
pay no that's true you know and and you
live you would have talked about maybe
living there in the future again because
it has such a strong vegan culture yes
there's so many great restaurants like
wouldn't you want to live in a high
trust community if it were to begin like
if you could drop your from drop your
kid off with a fellow vegan know that
they wouldn't feed your kid meat or
dairy
so the veganism is very very important
to me so this this kind of kind of
slants the discourse but I think again
part of the issue characters to what
extent are you an individualist or to
what extent are you a conformist or a
commute communitarian you know in your
character even if you have a vegan
community which is impossible anywhere
other than Taiwan and Israel right now i
think i think these are maybe the only
place in the world being communion
exists
maybe berlin shout-out to berlin I don't
have anyone telling me I probably
probably not Berlin
maybe Berlin 20 years in the future but
there were just a few place in the world
we have enough of a mass of vegans to
talk about talk about living in a in a
vegan community and you're right in the
town I was in there were people trying
to come into our lives that way all of
the members of vegan organized religions
so there were vegans who were some kind
of East Asian eccentric religion I'm not
gonna say Buddhism I'm not gonna call it
what is them but East Asian
miscellaneous spirituality and they were
trying to come into our lives and they
were you know uh they were they weren't
offering to babysit my daughter probably
in the future they would have probably
if we got more involved
most of us people are pretty busy I
don't that anytime the babies pass to
you but yeah and they were offering that
to help us and become our friends and
coming through and they were they these
were mostly elderly people some of them
some of them still in their 30s but
mostly elderly people gone so it is it
is coming up more in the hydrocity what
are the advantages and disadvantages of
this trust in in this sense people in
political science people in academia
they're mostly interested in measurable
outcomes like there's a flood and with
no government intervention with no money
being paid by an agency the people in
the neighborhood get organized
and go out and lay down sandbags or they
get organized go to the school and just
to themselves spontaneously organize the
school gym to take in refugees like
people whose houses have been destroyed
by the flood or something you know where
people just do that why on the basis of
trust like directly and indirectly this
reflects the fact that you know these
people from your church or you know them
from school you know them from this this
high level of social cohesion as opposed
to be in a situation I think probably
Hurricane Katrina in the States was an
example of that where there was
incredibly little ability for so for
civil society civil society including
quite a little ability for civil society
to take care of itself and take on this
humanitarian role where instead people
were kind of totally dependent on the
government and and and looking for
government leadership and you know
government institutions do this stuff
now again I'm not saying this to to
insult the the people of New Orleans but
we're very low levels of trust and we're
distrust
I mean exactly would you open your home
to these strangers and take them in if
there's a flood that's a that's a real
question of trust right yeah and whether
or not you speak the same language as
those people you're trying to help these
are real questions of trust so a lot of
it in terms of what are the advantages
that's a lot of what what's looked at
but you know I've got to tell you I
guess on some level I am more of a more
of a rugged individualist well you know
I do want to have more vegans in my life
on one exchange exchange views with
vegans but know that life of living in a
in a high trust community if anything I
feel it I feel it impinges on me you
know so we have one I think you do
though you know what I'm talking we have
one yeah Moore who knows what's going on
my life but look yeah like look we'll
just be working out and we're here from
outside like hey what if you know we
don't we don't go out for drinks we
don't drink alcohol but if we went out
for drinks and then brought another
couple home with us or something
she'd know about it or you Burwood know
who you had these people over your
apartment it's like anything we did that
was in any way risque or unexpected what
if was so I'm a teacher what if I have a
student come to my apartment
so let's say it's a female student my
neighbor knows I had a female student
over to my apartment you know I mean
well you have this level of surveillance
and intrusion in your life and so on and
it is caring
she helped she helps us with a lot yeah
she really she really does she's giving
me my job using these technical terms
what I really like is a low trust
society what I mean and that but this is
this is not incompatible with all the
emphasis I've put on going to City Hall
City Hall isn't a trust based
institution City Hall is a tax taxation
and coercion based institution when City
Hall comes to bail people out when
there's a flood or something it's you
know it's the power of the government's
powers it even if it's democratic even
if it's you know transparent or yes it's
a very different thing I'm just being
honest you vote about Who I am
yeah I mean I totally understand because
I didn't grow up and you know I didn't
grow okay so I didn't grow up in a
metropolitan city like Toronto but I
also didn't have that experience of you
able to you know go over to my friends
house like if I if I wanted to go to a
friend's house my parents would have to
drive me five miles to get to the you
know at least miles to get to my in
front house I wasn't able to like maybe
it was like the age of my neighbors or
something but like I did not babysit
like there seemed to be no young kids
and they knew I was living in it so so I
didn't have that experience like I did
like dog sit or cat sit for some people
so like you know there was a certain
level of trust like for my direct
neighbors but like past like the house
right next to me I did not know anybody
like I did not talk to anybody I did not
know anything about them other than like
when they mowed their lawn you know so
yeah like I understand what you're
saying and then and then I lived in Ann
Arbor and I didn't talk to my neighbors
yeah right I didn't want any civil
society cohesion with rather with your
neighbors yeah and I totally understand
you know like I didn't want people in my
business and even my even my roommates I
it was kind of like sure it's too much
of my business
sure yeah sure like I just don't want to
know what other people are doing sure
hon right not sure one of our neighbors
was a nudist Lucy so I got an email into
this I got an email challenging me from
from Maude vegan so I my vegan actually
said she doesn't support like native
language preservation which is
interesting that's a big political
diversity meter I care a lot about
indigenous languages like like Korean
Ojibwe but I just know time consisted in
that - I don't want Cree people in a jib
way people to be locked away in a museum
you know I don't want them to be in
small remote rural communities where
they can't is very that world for me
also it's crucial that we have education
in those languages in Montreal and
Vancouver and Toronto the only cities we
have in Canada you know that Korean a
g-way people can retain their language
and be engaged with the modern world you
know challenges and the challenges of
other of other cultures and it's for me
it's a forward-looking engagement but
just say that too is consistent because
my point is I'm not looking at
preserving traditional culture right you
want TM machines to have creative I want
this to be part of modernity and part of
the future I want there to be important
questions asked in Korean at you I want
there to be debates about nuclear power
in Korean at your point you know what I
mean whatever the issues are or solar
power whatever the issues are being
debated in the future in that it's not a
and you know obviously for those
questions if it's for me for those
communities that's going to be a huge
question because they'll start to lose
their cohesion as they lose their
isolation which is for them still to
have in the future that's maybe an
extreme case of cohesion isolation work
yes everyone went to the same school
because there only is one school
everyone knows each other and they even
have problems with with the inbreeding
it's hard for them to find someone to
marry because everyone on the
reservation maybe they're their cousin
or what have you and it can be very
difficult to even get to another
reservation very difficult very
expensive the travel reservations again
the Internet has helped that a lot when
I talk to First Nations people a lot of
them said yeah their whole life is on
Facebook that's the way they can they
can be another people
yeah but no I don't see myself as as as
kind of fighting to preserve a high
trust society there I think that I think
that there are a lot of kind of
philosophical advantages to living in a
low trust society but I mean for both of
us I think part of the question is you
you didn't save it this way but you in
effects we said we're asking would I
feel differently about it if I had
direct experience with it you know I
mean what I think that's a real question
for both of us would you feel
differently about a valium or something
if you had really lived in weather a
small town in Spain or small town Korea
and I'm going to ask that too would I
value this would I value a feel feel but
this more if I had a positive experience
with great education and great
healthcare and neighbors neighbors
helping me yeah helping me because most
of what I can imagine is neighbors
hindering me neighbors judging me
neighbors regarding me as insane because
I'm vegan you know what I mean not not
neighbors that are actually helping and
loving and positive yeah I do like
something that I just thought of when I
was living in a suburb of Detroit so
after I graduated from college for three
years I lived in an apartment building
outside of Detroit and it wasn't in
Detroit I'm just repeating that I wasn't
actually in Detroit um so yeah but still
there was crime and you know I saw drug
deals going on like outside my door all
the time but like you know I didn't even
talk to my neighbor at all like you know
what I mean so um but what I was gonna
say is my car it somebody almost stole
stole my catalytic converter I guess
they got spooked and ran off before they
could actually like sawed off the whole
thing so we're starting the removers yes
cuz I turned on my car one morning and
it was really loud you know like oh
right so you know I took it to a shop
and they saw that it had been like that
the pipe leading to the catalytic
converter had been sawed half way
through and they had to they had to weld
it weld it back in place so like after
that I was really paranoid I was like I
don't want my car to be stolen like I
wish there was a neighborhood watch you
know like I wish I could like get my
neighbors so I kind of watch
when they were in the parking lot like
how can you have a meaningful
neighborhood watch if you don't have a
meaningful neighborhood rightful
cohesion right right that's one thing so
like at least when you're in a
neighborhood like you have people
looking out for just generally like
looking out for the neighborhood so look
you know my grandmother my grandmother
was white he came yes in Toronto she was
walking through a subway entrance and
this is the single wealthiest subway
entrance in Canada because it's the
subway entrance for Forest Hill Village
specifically a lot of people don't even
know that exists it's a special entrance
for a subway station so I just mentioned
so it really is a very wealthy very
white neighborhood it's a very unusual
most neighborhoods are that in Canada
don't have a subway it does mention Moe
normally they you know they're kind of a
downtown place and my grandmother was
wearing her fancy long coat she was all
dressed up that so she dressed when she
was going out to do something you know
she was all dressed up as fancy as a as
a little old white lady can be and
walking along there was a there was a
little safety barrier that she didn't
see and she tripped and fell on it and
fell on her face and broke her
collarbone so she was totally
immobilized and she lay their face down
on the floor with you know she turned
her head sideways and called two people
for help and there's on one videotape
because you know in the subway they have
security cameras it were yeah and she
lay there for like more than two hours
saying help me help me please
and all these wealthy white people walk
past her and in order yeah who helped
her and the staff didn't give a so
like the employees there was actually a
question why not you should sue the
subway system you know but this is a low
trust Society oh you see a person lying
face down crying for help in the subway
just step over them keep going
that's like the bad stereotype of the
mean big city low dress Society it's a
real example who helped them to poor
black Caribbean immigrants who Elton and
I forget I think the wife of the Gups
was a husband and wife these two black
people I think she was working on
something like a like a house cleaner in
the neighborhood I'm sorry I forgot it
was some that was a very humble formal
work she was doing
and her husband had come to pick her up
kind of thing and they walk through but
they walked through these two black
Caribbean people I think they were
Dominican Republic immigrants as I
recall immigrants bedico they see this
little old woman and they pick her up
and they help they took her to the
hospital and they stayed with her in the
hospital and they visited her repeatedly
while she was in the hospital cuz she
had no family coming to help her or
visitor because I was living in Cambodia
at the time probably I think it was yeah
and they brought her flowers in the
hospital and so so it's funny obviously
partly this conversation we're having is
a dead end because this issue that
begins with Bowling Alone by Putnam this
constructing the discourse in terms of
social trust versus multiculturalism it
evades the question of the particular
cultures involved maybe there are
uniquely wonderful things about
Dominican culture Dominican Republic in
the Caribbean maybe there are uniquely
awful things about Scottish Canadian
culture but I'm not gonna deny that
because when you were talking about this
thing not knowing your neighbors being
cold and distant also people that's what
Scottish Canadians are like that's what
most white Protestant Canadians are like
so it doesn't matter if you live in a
monocultural all-white canadian
neighborhood if you're in an Anglo
Protestant why never get it it's
isolating anyway you know you live in
this hyper isolated non social state
anyway you know what I mean and again
there are unique things about South
Korean culture you know is so on and so
forth so to what extent you know what
I've said here in this framed in this
way to what extent is it only really
applicable to particular contrasts
between between particular cultures
trusts no longer just a virtue political
science it up for you